Transcription analysis 

What genes are turn on?
Collection of RNA, what genes are actually helpful and what conditions do they use? 
Scientist used to use a microarray v RNA-sequence 

Which genes are correlated with out conditions and which are not? Microarray gives you a smaller amount of genes 
Some difficulties with tis 

RNA sequences with alumina machine 
cDNA; directly sequence rRNA 

-Strand-specific RNA - helps you identify where the RNA comes from 
Best way to identify noncoding or antisense RNA (these will come out in the wrong direction but it's not technically transcribed) 
Can be technically challenging and time consuming 

Most common way: dUTP
Polimarized will incorporate the U. Degrade anything with the U in it

Single-cell-RNA-Seq (scRNA-Seq)

5 steps to analysis of RNA-SEQ DATA
1. Preprocessing - remove low quality reads (trim and truncation), remove adapters and codes 
2. Read alignment - able to do this in a different couple ways. "Unspoiled - if whole sequence genome is unavailable - couple different programs to do this" or spliced where using a whole genome as difference. Allows identification of novel transcripts. Different programs you can use - WILL BE USING ? 
3. Transcriptome reconstruction - continuing to use the genome and overlapping transcription genes. Hard for eukaryotes because it's complicated so most people don't do it! Will be using StringTie  
4. Expression quantification - normalize for gene length and sequencing depth. Gene-level quantification; does not take into account splice variants . Using Stringtie (FPKM - giving you a estimate abundance b/c its normalized and can directly compare the numbers) 
5. Differential expression analysis - generate figures etc, and able to compare relative abundance of transcripts in different samples. Ex. Compare cancer to non-cancer 

Visualize differential expresión using Ballgown; compare expression v values and identify mostly significant differential expressed genes 

DenoVO putting the puzzle together 